# § 2.1 | Preface
To ensure the success of the department's mission, all members are responsible for
completing assigned tasks and duties. Besides this basic responsibility, and any other
responsibilities and duties contained in the Sheriff Policy Manual or delegated by the
competent authority, department members are also responsible for providing direct
supervision when necessary, commensurate with their rank.

# § 2.2 | Chief Sheriff (1)
The Chief Sheriff is the highest-ranking individual to carry a uniform inside the British
Columbia Sheriff Service and serves as the Agency Executive of the department. They have
the final authority and say about policies, procedures and discipline associated with the
department. As the Agency Executive and Chief Sheriff, their primary responsibility is
providing the department with regulations to abide by and efficient use of operations of the
British Columbia Sheriff Service.

# § 2.3 | Deputy Chief (1)
The Deputy Chief is the second highest-ranking individual to carry a uniform inside the
British Columbia Sheriff Service and serves as the Executive Officer of the department.
They help support and assist the Chief Sheriff in matters that relate to policy, procedure
and discipline inside the department. Their primary responsibilities are major department
functions and acting as the Chief Sheriff in the event of a vacancy or absence.

# § 2.3 | Chief Superintendent (1)
The Chief Superintendent is the third highest-ranking individual to carry a uniform inside
the British Columbia Sheriff Service and serves as the Chief Superintendent. As one of their
primary responsibilities, they oversee all bureaus associated with the British Columbia
Sheriff Service and ensure that the Superintendents are up to date and actively partaking in
their duties as Bureau Commanders. They also assume general responsibilities, command
and oversight of the department if both the Chief Sheriff and Deputy Chief Sheriff are
absent.

---

# § 2.3 | Superintendent (2)
The Superintendents are considered the fourth highest-ranking individual in the British
Columbia Sheriff Service. They are responsible for commanding a specific bureau,
essentially serving as Bureau Directors and ensuring that Staff Inspectors are maintaining
good activity, dedication, and effort toward their designated divisions.

# § 2.4 | Staff Inspectors (4)
The Staff Inspectors are considered the highest-ranking command individual inside the
British Columbia Sheriff Service and serve as division directors. Assuming this position does
come with big responsibilities such as managing a division, ensuring that all personnel
employed inside the division is maintaining good activity, conduct and dedication towards
their duties. Along with ensuring that their division is operating in guidance with the Sheriff
Policy Manual and other directives issued by their superiors, Staff Inspectors must submit a
bi–monthly report to their respective superintendent, which outlines the division’s overall
activity and the actions that were administered during the month.

# § 2.5 | Inspectors (4)
The Inspectors are considered the second highest-ranking command individuals inside the
British Columbia Sheriff Service and serve as division deputy directors. As deputy directors
of a division, they are responsible for supporting and assisting the Staff Inspector in
managing their assigned division. Inspectors generally assume the same role as a Staff
Inspector, but instead of assuming general command over a division, they assist the director
and may serve as Acting Staff Inspector in the event of an absence or vacancy until their
officialised appointment.

---

# § 2.6 | Staff Sergeant (6)
The Staff Sergeants are considered the highest-ranking supervisory individual inside the
British Columbia Sheriff Service and serve as the division assistant directors. They are
responsible for overseeing their selected supervisors (Sergeants) and ensuring that they
are carrying out the designated duties that they are expected to do. As supervisory
individuals, they are given the authority to respond to and handle supervisor requests
in-game.

# § 2.7 | Sergeant (10)
The Sergeants are considered to be the lowest highest-ranking supervisory individual inside
the British Columbia Sheriff Service and serve as Unit Supervisors. They are responsible for
managing and directing a unit associated with their respective division and bureau,
ensuring that their deputies are maintaining good activity levels, dedication and effort
towards their designated duties, and good conduct is displayed. As unit supervisors, they
are given the authority to respond to and handle supervisor requests and conduct bi-weekly
activity reports and submit them to their superiors. Sergeants and above are considered
supervisors, and all reserve the right to respond to and handle supervisor requests.

---

# § 2.8 | Senior Deputy Sheriff (16)
The Senior Deputy Sheriffs are experienced-level employees inside the British Columbia
Sheriff Service and serve as senior peace officers in the province of British Columbia. They
have the same responsibilities as Deputy Sheriffs but will assume the responsibility of an
Acting Sergeant in the event of their superior’s absence or vacancy. Those who have
obtained this rank usually have more experience and knowledge than lower-ranked
individuals in the organisation. Activity, dedication and effort play a big role in achieving this
position and generally require more than three months of continuous service in the British
Columbia Sheriff Service.

# § 2.9 | Deputy Sheriff (90)
The Deputy Sheriffs are standard-level employees inside the British Columbia Sheriff
Service, and they serve as peace officers in the province of British Columbia. Standard
employees are responsible for enforcing laws and policing around the City of Vancouver,
where they have the right to arrest and detain an individual if there is probable cause and
reasonable suspicion. These are the faces of the British Columbia Sheriff Service, and any
of the conduct and behaviour they display while on duty reflects the department’s
reputation. Depending on their assigned division and bureau, each Deputy Sheriff has a
unique responsibility and duty compared with another division/bureau.

---

# § 2.10 | Recruit (30)
The Recruits are newly inducted trainees who have just been accepted into the British
Columbia Sheriff Service, and they are responsible for completing the Sheriff Academy in a
timely manner that has been set by the Training Division. All recruits are expected to attend sessions which teach them information and knowledge about the department and our
operations, policies, and procedures that they are expected to know upon graduation.
